So over the years, the Aggie players have
developed a fairly sound financial basis. I think
so. On their own. I think so, yes. They, I assume,
own their own equipment. Oh, yes. You have
lighting, sound equipment. Oh, yeah, we've got
quite a bit of lighting equipment. But we're
working quite closely now, or I presume this next
year, and they're going to work very, very closely
with us. people over there in the center. In fact,
we've been working rather closely with them this
last year. We do some shows in the forum and we do, I
did a show and two shows in the auditorium, the 750
seat auditorium. My last show was over there, Play
It Again Sam. That's the last show that I directed
here at A&M. I want to tell you something about
that, not that it's important or not, but the first
play I did here back in 1950, kind lady, a young
fella here named Harry Gooding, who was then a
student in the Department of Architecture. And he
played in that play. And when I was getting ready to
do Play It Again Sam,
he called me and he wanted to know if, for
sentimental reasons, he could play in this last
show that I was going to do before I retire. Well,
the Aggie place right now is open only to students.
No faculty, no... Now, right now, he's working
down there in the architect system building. But I
thought that was a nice gesture for him to ask to be
in my last show. And so he played in my last show and
also in my first show. He played Humphrey Bogart in
the last show. He played the role that Humphrey
Bogart had played in Sand. Well, that would be, I
would think, quite an honor to you to have one of
your former people come back, and particularly
one from your first show that would want to have a
role in your last show. Well, Harry and I have known
each other for a good many years, and we're pretty
good friends. He was with me for a long, long time,
about ten years, I guess, before we turned it over
into an all-students. All-students. Yeah. Why
was it decided to turn it into an all-student
organization? It would seem you would have had
good success with student and outsiders. Well,
I'll tell you the reason for that. Well, when we
turned it into an all-student organization, at
that time, women were not admitted to A&M. But we
had quite a bunch of people in there. And
personally, I don't think that faculty and
students work together very well for any length of
time in A&M. in an organization like that, where
you have to work so close. I just don't think it
works well. Now, we've never had any men on the
faculty. We've had quite a few women, but they work
quite well with the young lads. You know, we've had
awfully nice ones. I want to say one thing right
now, and I want to get this on the tape. I've been
running this thing for a good many years. And we
don't have any funny stuff going on in the Aggie
players as an organization. Not while they're
around me. They know the word is out. Nobody comes
around me while they've been drinking. All they
got to do is pass by me and they're out. Now, I don't
care whether anybody likes that or not. But that's
the first step in deterioration of a theater
group. You know, theater people don't have a very
good reputation in this country. They're looked
upon as sort of theories and funny people. But
that's one thing. And I have had, we've had a few
little problems over the years, but they were
settled and settled very, very quickly. And I'll
tell you something else. I had one boy that I put
out, and he came back within a year, and he said, may
I come back in? I said, yeah. He got back in, and he
eventually became president of the
organization. But he got erected. Well, I would
imagine particularly where you have an
organization that's primarily student males and
some faculty wives, you would have to run a pretty
tight operation so as to not have problems. I tried
to run a tight organization. And I think I was
fairly successful with it. Well, I don't think I
have ever heard anything other than good things
about the Aggie players. Well, I'm happy to hear
that. And I want to add one other thing here. Over
the years, I have never had anybody from the
administration or anybody from the faculty claim
that I chose and did a show that was not fit to be
done. I mean by that, a dirty show. Never. Now
that's something. And I'm very proud of that. And
many of the administrators have come to see our
shows. And you know what I mean by the
administrators. They've come to see our shows
over the years. And I have never had one call me on
the phone, write a letter, or anything that they
objected to the show. I did have one time, many,
many years ago, I did what was a command decision.
That was a war show. And I did have one instructor
come up to me the next day, and he said, my wife
thinks that's a very awful show. Well, there was a
couple of dams and a couple of hells in it. Well,
these generals were in this little place, and
these guys were flying over there dropping bombs.
Now, you know they weren't going to say tut-tut.
Yeah, yeah. And I, you know, I didn't... But I will
not allow in any script of mine that I do any
reference to a deity unless it's a lawful
reference. You understand? Some of these funny
little lines they throw in there. I could go on, but
it might mess up your microphone. I won't go into
detail. But if I do not see that it adds anything to
the script, I'm going to alter it or change it, and I
don't think that's going to hurt the author
because he's not going to know anything about it.
But a lot of these, and I won't say this word over
this microphone, but a lot of these, you know,
hitting your thumb. I've taught my kids, you know,
instead of an expletive, they can get a lot more
bleeding out of the audience by silencing. You
understand what I'm talking about? Huh? Well,
that's what I do with those kind of funny, stupid
things they're having in. Now, you notice, you
watch TV a little, and you notice that they're
getting a few hells and dams in there now. Huh? I
don't think. I'm not a Puritan, my friend. I'm not a
Puritan. I know that happens all the time. I do it
myself. But I don't see the need for that, really,
when you come right down. However, I will say
they're very clever in placing these things today
in their script. Very clever about it. But, well, I
didn't want to get that annotated. Now, what these
kids do when they leave, I don't know. I can't
control that. But when they're working for me,
brother, I control that. And I tell them there's
three things that make, you know. I want them to
have some fun. Fun and work. You see? Those are the
two things that will produce a good show. Idea,
people, and space. That's what theater is all
about. And that's the only three requisites you
need. Idea, people, space. You can do a show in a cow
fashion. You don't need a building. And that's
what I've laid the premise, that's the premise of
my theater work. Well, I think that would be a
premise for an awful lot of things. Simplicity.
That's the thing. Simplicity.
So frequently today, not only in theater, but in
many other things, schools and everything,
there's so much emphasis placed upon the
facility. Yes, yes. We do too many things for these
kiddos today. Let them do these things
themselves, make their own mistakes. They learn
that way. When they build a flat, I'll give them the
blueprint, let them go at it. And when they get it
all through, I'll look at it.
I'll say, you see that cornice down there? Mm-hmm.
I'll say, well, look at your blueprint. Oh, I got it
on wrong, haven't I? I'll say, yeah. I'll say, now,
make it again. They cost me money, but it's worth
it. In the long run, they learn that way. They
learn. and they'll stretch a canvas on a flat, and
they'll glue-size it. And I'll watch them.
They'll stretch it, you know, pretty tight, and
they'll glue-size it, come back in three hours,
and there'll be a big split up the middle. I said,
how'd that happen? I said, did you read the
instructions on the blueprint there? No. I said,
well, you go back and read the instructions. He
really said, leave it limp a little before you
glue-size it. I said, now that'll... Well, glue
size is what you put on to fill the little holes in
this cheesecloth stuff before you paint it, see?
Yeah. That's the way. That's the way. Experience.
My kids learn theater by doing theater. By doing
it. Among the Aggie players, then, each play you
produce, you have the entire cast, the technical
crew, and they build the set. Absolutely. They do
all the work under our supervision. You see, they
take courses. And incidentally, anybody that's
taken a theater arts course must, at least this has
been the way I've run it since I was... ran director
of the thing, they must participate in a current
and live show some way or other. They build a flat
or, you know, work on a crew, one of the crews,
lights, flats, painting, publicity, or acting or
something, costuming. So being in the Aggie
Players is almost a requirement, in a sense, to
being in the theater arts section. No. Anybody can
join the Aggie Players, but they don't have to take
theater arts. What I mean is, if you are in theater
arts, though, you must be in the Aggie Players.
That's right. That's what I'm trying to get
across. Well, you must be in a show. And how do you
get in the Aggie Players? You just walked in and
say, I want to be an Aggie Player. I say, all right,
you're in. That's all. No dues, no anything. And
they can get out just as fast. They can either quit
themselves or be absolutely...
You're talking about being in the Aggie players,
and I think you mentioned something about you have
officers... No more. We stopped being one of those
things a long, long time ago because we spent so
much time doing it. We go from one show to another.
So you don't have any officers or anything? No, we
don't have meetings anymore. You did? Once we did,
once we did, yeah. And then did the organization
then have something to say in what place you put on
and that sort of thing? Well, to be honest about it,
no. I've chosen a play. I figured I knew more about
what a good play was than a 19-year-old kid. Let's
be honest about it. I've never had them complain
about a show.
If they didn't like the play that I chose, they
didn't have to show up for casting. No, I... Well, I
mean, after all. Well, there's a great deal to be
said for experience. Yeah. However, I've
listened. I listen to these kiddos. I figure that
any good teacher, if he can't learn from his
students, is not a good teacher. I don't care if
he's 16 years old. True. Listen, I think one of our
problems today, we don't listen to these kids.
Every once in a while, they come up with a good idea.
And if they do, my golly, let's use it. There's a gap
right there, as far as I'm concerned. They go, wow,
that kid doesn't know anything. He hasn't lived
long enough. Well, he may have something on the
ball. And if he does, heck, let's listen to him
anyway.
We've been talking a great deal about the Aggie
players. We talked about some of the other things,
primarily creative dramatics and premier
players. What led you to start those two programs?
I don't know. I generally have an answer, if
anybody can ask me. I just can't put my finger on it.
Well, the premier players, I noticed that there's
a bunch of them. Several years ago, these high
school kids didn't have too much to do. They didn't
want to work. You know, today, when we have a hard
time getting kids, they've got to go out and get a
job. But here they were, horsing around, fooling
around, and I thought, well, let's work up a
theater group for them, give them something to do.
We work them every day. Mm-hmm. And they do the same
thing the Aggie players do. They work on it every
afternoon. They're building flats. They may be
acting, building flats and painting this and
doing that and playing with electricity and so
forth. We teach them a good deal of good theater
work in there. Well, you would have to if you do two
plays in the summer. Yeah, that's right. And
they're two full-length plays. And they're not
crummy plays either. We do good plays. No, do... Do
you have some kids work in both plays, or do you just
split up the group? No, we do one play the first
month and then another play the next month. We have
two sessions. Do some kids participate in both
sessions? Oh, yeah. We have mostly repeaters.
They get in on the first one morning. They sign up
for the second. In fact, this last summer we had
more in the second half than the first half. Do you
have many repeaters from year to year? Yes, you'd
be surprised. We do. We have quite a few repeaters.
We had one kiddo came in, one kid I remember from
downtown there. He came in creative dramatics
when he was about five years old and he went all
through the creative dramatics and he went all
through the premium players until he got into
college. Did he carry on with his theater work in
the college? He's a singer, really, what he is now.
He's studying music. Pretty good boy, too. Have
you had many or any number of people who've been to
Aggie Players who have gone on to professional
dramatics or professional theater? Wow. Not
many. Not a few. Do you remember Rick Torn? No. He's
a pretty good actor out in Hollywood now. In fact, I
think he's over in Spain now, on account of the
income tax or something. But he was an Aggie
player, and then he went down to the University of
Texas, and he was quite successful in New York. He
was very successful in Hollywood. and uh then
there's some other people i don't know if we need to
name them we've had several and there's several
people i worked with at baylor when i was directing
some shows up there for baker clue guliger for one i
saw him last night in a movie blue he's been very
successful in new york and he's very successful
out there in hollywood he does a lot of tv work very
good actor terribly good actor i've worked with
him directed him and i've worked in shows with him
too by the way even at my advanced age then.
But it's been a great deal of comfort and a great
deal of fun for me, and I'm going to miss it. You said
you did some shows at Baylor. Was this, this would
be during the summer while you were working on a
master's degree? They have up there, or did have,
what they call summer stock. It was the first
collegiate summer stock company in this part of
the country. and you'd go up there and put out so
much money and go to school and then you'd get so
much back at the end of summer if and when and so
forth. But it was a lot of fun. They had some pretty
good people up there too. You had a good faculty.
Can you tell us a little bit about your graduate
work at Baylor? Was that done entirely in the
summers? Uh-huh. And your major work is what? Your
major field for the masters?
English. English. Yeah. With a specialty in
theater. Oh, I have two master's degrees. Yes. Oh,
I see what you mean. Yes, yes. I have a master's
degree in English, English crit, and a master's
degree in theater. I did them in the summer. So did
you have to write two theses? Mm-hmm. What was your
first? The first thesis in English was the
Francesca di Rimini motif in... plays. I traced it
down in plays. That's in the fifth canto of Dante's
Alighieri's Inferno, the Paola and Francesca
love story. And I traced it, tried to trace it, to
see how many plays had been written. And strangely
or late, I only found nine, and none of which were
Too good. And this was done at Baylor? Mm-hmm. And
what year did you receive that degree or do you
remember? I can't remember. I can't remember. I
was an old man when I did that. I think I was in, I
don't know. I can't remember. But it was, so it was
then it would have been? 59, wasn't it? Or did I get
the other one? I can't remember, tell you that.
Well, anyway, after that master's in English, you
went back and got a second master's in theater.
Yeah, yeah. And what was your thesis in that field?
The theater work at Texas A&M College. Oh, I can
remember the date on that. That was 1960, because
that's as far up as it is. The second master's was in
1960. Yeah, it ended. Yeah, yeah.
Okay. Sound like 1949. Was that right? That would
have been for the first one. I don't know. I think we
probably can find that out if we need to. Of course,
in addition to being director of the Aggie
Players, you've been the voice of Kyle Field for a
goodly number of years. I believe that also was
1950, was it not?
How did you happen to become that? It's a strange
story. They were having a playoff game here on a
high school level, Class AA, I can remember that.
And Ray Williams out of Austin phoned up here and he
wanted some officials to do the ballgame. And so
they chose officials. I went to the meeting and
they said, let's broadcast it out of the stadium.
And they had then a little place about as wide as
this desk, a little wooden shack down on that end of
the stands on the west side and west side yeah
that's where the press box is it's on the south end
of the west side and somebody there I don't
remember who it was I remember the officials I met
one of them yesterday and we had a little talk about
that ball game 25 years ago and so I did that high
school game And I guess a few people heard me, and I
forget who the coach was here now. Was it either Ray
George or Harry Steitler? Steitler, I believe
it's Steitler. Harry, I believe. And Bill Dayton
was here at the time as a trainer, if I recall
rightly. And he came up to me in August sometime and
asked me if I'd do the college game. And I said, yes.
And that was all there was to it. I mean, I've never
had a contract with them or anything to that
effect. It was a request of the athletic
department. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah. That you did
the
voice of Kyle Fitts. Yeah, the voice of Kyle Fitts.
You know, I kind of liked that. Well, it gives you
some contact with a different set of people. Yeah.
Well, I coached football for quite a few years. I
refereed football for quite a few years. I
belonged to the SFOA. And that's how I got into this
athletic business. I've been fiddling around in
athletics either as a player or a coach. spectator
or announcer for about 50 years. I've done
everything in athletics. You said you were a
member of SFOA in the conversation chapter for a
number of years. At what level did you officiate
games? High school and junior college. which must
have been a pretty busy life for you during the
football season. Well, I gave up a lot of football
games for the players, I'll tell you that. I was
going to say. Oh, yeah. Well, the players came
first to me, and I, you know, pick up a buck or two
here. That wasn't so important to me as my
organization, the players, which I felt and will
feel until the 31st of August is mine. Mm-hmm.
Well, I think you have every right to feel that way.
You know, it's a strange thing. I used to, not too
long ago, I'd go out around the country making
little talks to groups of people, and invariably
I'd be introduced as the voice of Kyle Field. I used
to get a little kick out of that. But the thing is
this. For just a few hours a year, I perform over
there. Nothing was ever said of the hours and the
hours and the hours that I spent teaching theater
and doing theater work. You know how little things
get stuck to you like that? Isn't it funny? That
must be some kind of a... on our society. Well,
yeah, I suppose, though, it's a few hours a year,
but then... I hit a lot of people. You have a lot of
thousands of people. Yeah, I hit a lot of people. At
one point, at one time. Over a single football
season, you probably get as many people hear your
voice as in several years of theater. Well, of
course, they don't hear your voice at all. Only
those people who are involved in the Aggie
players, I guess, hear your voice. That's right. I
venture to say probably that any number of those
people who hear you at the football games are not
even aware of the fact that you are director of the
Aggie players. They don't know who I am. And it's
well that they don't. After all, the people come to
see a football game. They come to see the players
play ball. They don't come to hear me. I just happen
to be an adjunct to the ballgame, that's all.
But you will be continuing in that capacity? I have
been asked by the athletic department to continue
as the voice of Kyle Field, and I told them I would be
very happy, the good Lord willing.
How close of a contact with the athletic
department have you had during your announcing? I
mean, obviously you have to know somewhat more
about the players than the average spectator who
comes. Well, I go over there on rare occasions. As a
social visit. And in the next few days, I'm going
over and I'm going to get hold of the defensive
coach and I'm going to have him show me their
defensive lineups, the various defenses that
they go into. Then I'm going to get their offensive
lineups, how they run the ball, and I'm going to
know where these different players are. And
that's about it. That's about it. I don't bother
them. They don't bother me. In other words, I don't
go there and tell them how to run their football
club. They love that, I guess. We have very
friendly relationships, very friendly. But as
you say, people come to see the ballgame, not hear
you. That's right. So your role as the announcer,
Kyle Field, is considerably different than
the... television broadcast of the game. Oh, yes,
yes. I work on this theory. The less I say up there,
the better. And I've held that idea for 50 years, 25
years. Why should I keep saying, well, now this
quarterback is scratching himself. He's under
the ball. They can see he's under the ball. I don't
have to tell them it's a first down and 15 yards to
go. They can see that on the scoreboard. I don't
have to tell them. where the ball is on what line it
is. They can see that. I used to have to when they
didn't have a scoreboard. You know, a fellow way
down here, and he balled me on the five. I said, the
ball is now on the five. He couldn't see down there.
He didn't know where it was, even in the field or
not. But they got all that stuff on the board. I
don't have to tell them that anymore. But they
can't tell who's carrying the ball half the time.
And they don't, you know, there's a lot of things
they don't see. They don't see a nice block.
There's one thing about this football that does
bother me a little. You know, the center of the
offensive team does more work than any other one
man on the ball club. He has to do three things, four
things. He has to pass the ball to the quarterback
when he's up there hand to hand. He has to pass the
ball for a place kick, and then he has to pass the
ball for a punt. Now, those are three entirely
different things. And on every single offensive
play, he has to block somebody, at least one or two
men.
Now, the other play, you know, you see this fellow
prancing off here, just floating out there.
Nobody touches him or nothing. He's a decoy, you
know. But that poor center, that son of a gun is
right in the middle of the hellhole of Calcutta,
and he catches it every single play. And he's got a
blocker. He does that for defense. He'd get killed
if he doesn't. He catches it worse when he centers
for the punt or the place kick because he's stirred
upside down. Yeah, that poof. And you know, you can
seldom mention a fella's name over the PA. You see?
Very real. The only time he gets mentioned is if he
snaps the ball over somebody's head. No, I won't
mention that. No, no. Yeah. I don't say you, but in
most... No, I wouldn't. In the print, he would. In
most... No, I think it was perfect. No, I shouldn't
say that. In those broadcasts or televised... I
think they talk too much, to tell you the truth. I
really do think they talk too much. Is this perhaps
a carryover from radio when they were trying to
describe the game? No, I think it's a case of these
fellows are so in love with their voice and they
love to hear themselves so much they just got to
keep talking. I shouldn't say that, probably, but
that's the way it appears to me. And I don't know.
I... Because watching it on TV is different than
being in a stadium.